# Applied mathematics & power / grid system
* mathematical modeling, 
* numerical analysis of differential equations, 
* optimization theory, 
* mesh generation for complex geometries, 
* adaptive algorithms, 
* other important mathematical areas

# Problems are to be met:
* Can we predict the operating characteristics of a clean coal power plant?
* How stable is the plasma containment in tokamak?
* How quickly is climate change occurring and what are the uncertainties in the predicted time scales?
* How quickly can an introduced bio-weapon contaminate the agricultural environment in the US?
* How do we modify models of the atmosphere and clouds to incorporate newly collected data of possibly of new types?
* How quickly can the United States recover if part of the power grid became inoperable?
* What are optimal locations and communication  protocols for sensing devices in a remote-sensing network?
* How can new materials be designed with a specified desirable set of properties?
* How to understand complex systems?

# Areas that are not adequately developed:
* development and analysis of methods to model  large stochastic systems
* techniques for decomposing complex systems into systems of canonical subsystems
* sensitivity analysis, uncertainty  quantification, risk analysis, optimization and inversion
* breaking problems down into  simpler components cannot be the only mathematical  approach
* development of modeling, simulation and analysis tools that deal with the full complex systems
* enhance the theory and tools for data-model fusion for complex systems
	
# Three main themes:
## Predictive modeling and simulation of complex systems
* Develop analytical and computational approaches needed to understand and model the behavior of complex multiphysics, and multiscale phenomena.
* Enhance the theory and tools for complex multiscale, multicomponent models when observational or experimental data are incorporated in an essential way.
* Develop new approaches for efficient modeling of large stochastic systems
* Develop mathematical techniques for decomposing complex systems into systems of canonical subsystems and modeling their behavior

## Mathematical analysis of the behavior of complex systems
* Develop sound, computationally feasible strategies and methods for the collection, organization, statistical analysis and use of data associated with complex systems.
* Advance the theory and tools for sensitivity analysis to address the challenges posed by complex multiscale, multicomponent models
* Significantly advance the theory and tools for quantifying the effects of uncertainty and numerical simulation error on predictions using complex models and when fitting complex models to observations

## Using models of complex systems to inform policy makers
* Significantly advance the mathematics that supports risk analysis techniques for policy-making involving complex systems that include natural and engineered components, and economic, security and policy consequences.
* Develop techniques for formulating, analyzing and solving challenging optimization problems arising in complex natural and engineered systems.
* Develop techniques for addressing the mathematical and computational difficulties of inverse problems associated with complex systems.
		
		
# Criteria:

__Reliability__

__Energy efficiency__

__Sustainability__

		
		
		
